# Requirements Roadmap

This document serves two purposes.

- Outlining the remaining steps to do to finalize our projects requirements
- To give the ML team a good overview of how app should work. What information we can provide to the ML interface and what data we want as an outcome.

## App Key Features

- Users of our app form groups
  - to keep it in some boundaries, for now we will limit the group size to 10 people
  - 10 people should provide enough user data to work with and at the same time help to not blow up the complexity
- Every member of the group can request a playlist generation for the group
- A generated playlist should satisfy the following:
  - 60 to 70 percent of the songs in the playlist should be songs that are present in the users playlists
    - They don't have to part of every users song collection
  - The other songs should have a common ground to those that come from the users playlists
    - What this common ground is is still a point of discussion and relies heavily on how the ML team is able to process the data we provide
      - possible options are: overlapping genre, rating, playcount (probably not available), data generated by ML
  - It should be possible to feed further parameters to the playlist generation process
    - total playlist playtime
    - preferred genre (rock, pop, rap etc.)
    - preferred mood (energetic, chill, party etc.)
    - how much should the songs that are present in the users playlist be taken into account
      - This is especially important for groups that seem to have no common ground, how will the ML algorithm handle this? Use global data to generate a best guess? Randomize?
- The users can integrate the generated playlist into their Spotify account
- (Optional) We save the previously generated playlists of each group

## Machine Learning

We can provide the ML interface with all of the data we can obtain from the Spotify API. This includes general music data as well as user (Spotify user) related data.

The general idea is, that we send the interface a list of all the songs the users of a group have saved in their Spotify account. Additionally we would send something like a master list of songs. That would contain all songs available on Spotify with the required/available metadata.

This list of songs can be enhanced/completed with additional data to each of the songs.

Currently there are two possible flows that we have in mind:

### All in one flow

In this flow the ML interface would return a finished list of songs based on the song lists we send and additional parameters. These parameters would contain information like:

- expected mood/genre
- length of the list
- how many new songs are expected that are not already contained in the users own playlists.
- possibly more...

From our point of view the problem with this flow could be that the ML part would have to integrate the Spotify API as well.

### Splitted flow

In this flow we would send the ML interface two lists. One users list of songs and one master list that contains all songs that could possibly go into the final output.

The expected result would be a preselected list of songs out of the master list that match the users songs list in regard to certain parameters. How theses parameters look must be discussed with the ML team. But the parameters must come from the metadata we provide to each song.

After we receive the preselected list we would use some further **rule based** selection to output the final playlist.

This flow would split the workload between us and ML and anything that can be done rule based would be our part. Tasks like clustering would be the responsibility of the ML team.
